The Year of Spagetti, Haruki Murakami
originally published in 1981, english translation printed in The New Yorker, November 21, 2005

Nineteen-seventy-one was the Year of Spaghetti.In 1971, I cooked spaghetti to live, and lived to cook spaghetti. 
Steam rising from the pot was my pride and joy, tomato sauce bubbling up in the
saucepan my one great hope in life.

I went to a cooking specialty store and bought a kitchen timer and a huge
aluminum pot, big enough to bathe a German shepherd in, then went around
to all the supermarkets that catered to foreigners, gathering an
assortment of odd-sounding spices. I picked up a pasta cookbook at the
bookstore, and bought tomatoes by the dozen. I purchased every brand of
spaghetti I could lay my hands on, simmered every sauce known to man. Fine
particles of garlic, onion, and olive oil swirled in the air, forming a
harmonious cloud that penetrated every corner of my tiny apartment,
permeating the floor and the ceiling and the walls, my clothes, my books,
my records, my tennis racquet, my bundles of old letters. It was a
fragrance one might have smelled on ancient Roman aqueducts.

This is a story from the Year of Spaghetti, 1971 A.D.

As a rule, I cooked spaghetti, and ate it, by myself. I was convinced that
spaghetti was a dish best enjoyed alone. I cant really explain why I
felt that way, but there it is.

I always drank tea with my spaghetti and ate a simple lettuce-and-cucumber
salad. Id make sure I had plenty of both. I laid everything out neatly on
the table and enjoyed a leisurely meal, glancing at the paper as I ate.
From Sunday to Saturday, one Spaghetti Day followed another. And each new
Sunday started a brand-new Spaghetti Week.

Every time I sat down to a plate of spaghetti especially on a rainy
Afternoon I had the distinct feeling that somebody was about to knock on my
door. The person who I imagined was about to visit me was different each
time. Sometimes it was a stranger, sometimes someone I knew. Once, it was
a girl with slim legs whom Id dated in high school, and once it was
myself, from a few years back, come to pay a visit. Another time, it was
William Holden, with Jennifer Jones on his arm.

William Holden?

Not one of these people, however, actually ventured into my apartment.
They hovered just outside the door, without knocking, like fragments of
memory, and then slipped away.

Spring, summer, and fall, I cooked and cooked, as if cooking spaghetti
were an act of revenge. Like a lonely, jilted girl throwing old love
letters into the fireplace, I tossed one handful of spaghetti after
another into the pot.

Id gather up the trampled-down shadows of time, knead them into the shape
of a German shepherd, toss them into the roiling water, and sprinkle them
with salt. Then Id hover over the pot, oversized chopsticks in hand, until
the timer dinged its plaintive note.

Spaghetti strands are a crafty bunch, and I couldn’t let them out of my
sight. If I were to turn my back, they might well slip over the edge of
the pot and vanish into the night. The night lay in silent ambush, hoping
to waylay the prodigal strands.

Spaghetti alla parmigiana

Spaghetti alla napoletana

Spaghetti al cartoccio

Spaghetti aglio e olio

Spaghetti alla carbonara

Spaghetti della pina

And then there was the pitiful, nameless leftover spaghetti carelessly
tossed into the fridge.

Born in heat, the strands of spaghetti washed down the river of 1971 and
vanished.

I mourn them all — all the spaghetti of the year 1971.

When the phone rang at 3:20 p.m. I was sprawled out on the tatami, staring
at the ceiling. A pool of winter sunlight had formed in the place where I
lay. Like a dead fly I lay there, vacant, in a December spotlight.

At first, I didn’t recognize the sound as the phone ringing. It was more
like an unfamiliar memory that had hesitantly slipped in between the
layers of air. Finally, though, it began to take shape, and, in the end, a
ringing phone was unmistakably what it was. It was one hundred per cent a
phone ring in one-hundred-per-cent real air. Still sprawled out, I reached
over and picked up the receiver.

On the other end was a girl, a girl so indistinct that, by four-thirty,
she might very well have disappeared altogether. She was the ex-girlfriend
of a friend of mine. Something had brought them together, this guy and
this indistinct girl, and something had led them to break up. I had, I
admit, reluctantly played a role in getting them together in the first
place.

Sorry to bother you, she said, but do you know where he is now?

I looked at the phone, running my eyes along the length of the cord. The
cord was, sure enough, attached to the phone. I managed a vague reply.
There was something ominous in the girls voice, and whatever trouble was
brewing I knew that I didnt want to get involved.

Nobody will tell me where he is, she said in a chilly tone. Everybodys
pretending they dont know. But theres something important I have to tell
him, so please tell me where he is. I promise I wont drag you into this.
Where is he?

I honestly dont know, I told her. I havent seen him in a long time. My
voice didnt sound like my own. I was telling the truth about not having
seen him for a long time, but not about the other part I did know his
address and phone number. Whenever I tell a lie, something weird happens
to my voice.

No comment from her.

The phone was like a pillar of ice.

Then all the objects around me turned into pillars of ice, as if I were in
a J. G. Ballard science-fiction story.

I really dont know, I repeated. He went away a long time ago, without
saying a word.

The girl laughed. Give me a break. Hes not that clever. Were talking about
a guy who has to make a lot of noise no matter what he does.

She was right. The guy really was a bit of a dim bulb.

But I wasnt about to tell her where he was. Do that, and next Id have him
on the phone, giving me an earful. I was through with getting caught up in
other peoples messes. Id already dug a hole in the back yard and buried
everything that needed to be buried in it. Nobody could ever dig it up
again.

Im sorry, I said.

You dont like me, do you? she said suddenly.

I had no idea what to say. I didnt particularly dislike her. I had no real
impression of her at all. Its hard to have a bad impression of somebody
you have no impression of.

Im sorry, I said again. But Im cooking spaghetti right now.

Im sorry?

I said Im cooking spaghetti, I lied. I had no idea why I said that. But
the lie had already become a part of meso much so that, at that moment at
least, it didnt feel like a lie at all.

I went ahead and filled an imaginary pot with imaginary water, lit an
imaginary stove with an imaginary match.

So? she asked.

I sprinkled imaginary salt into the boiling water, gently lowered a
handful of imaginary spaghetti into the imaginary pot, set the imaginary
kitchen timer for eight minutes.

So I cant talk. The spaghetti will be ruined.

She didnt say anything.

Im really sorry, but cooking spaghetti is a delicate operation.

The girl was silent. The phone in my hand began to freeze again.

So could you call me back? I added hurriedly.

Because youre in the middle of making spaghetti? she asked.

Yeah.

Are you making it for someone, or are you going to eat alone?

Ill eat it by myself, I said.

She held her breath for a long time, then slowly breathed out. Theres no
way you could know this, but Im really in trouble. I dont know what to do.

Im sorry I cant help you, I said.

Theres some money involved, too.

I see.

He owes me money, she said. I lent him some money. I shouldnt have, but I
had to.

I was quiet for a minute, my thoughts drifting toward spaghetti. Im sorry,
I said. But Ive got the spaghetti going, so . . .

She gave a listless laugh. Goodbye, she said. Say hi to your spaghetti for
me. I hope it turns out O.K.

Bye, I said.

When I hung up the phone, the circle of light on the floor had shifted an
inch or two. I lay down again in that pool of light and resumed staring at
the ceiling.

Thinking about spaghetti that boils eternally but is never done is a sad,
sad thing.

Now I regret, a little, that I didnt tell the girl anything. Perhaps I
should have. I mean, her ex-boyfriend wasnt much to start with an empty
shell of a guy with artistic pretensions, a great talker whom nobody
trusted. She sounded as if she really were strapped for money, and, no
matter what the situation, you’ve got to pay back what you borrow.

Sometimes I wonder what happened to the girl the thought usually pops into
my mind when Im facing a steaming-hot plate of spaghetti. After she hung
up the phone, did she disappear forever, sucked into the 4:30 p.m.
shadows? Was I partly to blame?

I want you to understand my position, though. At the time, I didnt want to
get involved with anyone. Thats why I kept on cooking spaghetti, all by
myself. In that huge pot, big enough to hold a German shepherd.

Durum semolina, golden wheat wafting in Italian fields.

Can you imagine how astonished the Italians would be if they knew that
what they were exporting in 1971 was really *loneliness*?
aaron_co
abelm
adb
adnoblet
afrr128
ahsndnc
ajpye
alb5374
aleonard
alihamze
alsulami
altoono
alvizmit
alyons
aolvera
ar47843
as5212
asayal
ashok
ashvin
awg475
ayusuf
bbc484
bbridges
bcc825
bconrad
bds2758
bismuth
bmathi
brian926
bt9377
bwg479
byab300
byab308
cameron
cckuo
cgarcia
chaines
changwoo
charlie
chr528
cina
cja2345
clarkt
cmarnold
cmeyer3
cmo792
cmp3532
cmyoung
cnielson
cproctor
cspeed
csweber
cw23924
dan
danieler
davidbur
dbd537
dburton
dkardell
dkermany
dlabarre
dlimcher
dlitt
dmujje
dnguy3n
dtdzurko
dwang1
dwimmer
dy3359
egg
ehk332
eijkhout
elin524
elliot86
elm2733
em27799
emily_a
emp2499
epersico
erolfes
fabianjd
farouq
gagliano
gedmonds
gokivego
grajesh
gss646
hailong
hanpeizh
harshal1
hempel
hjkim92
hk22553
hl25939
hn3935
htc283
huangty
hz3622
hzb59
jag7548
jakejan
jap4283
jasminyl
jbb3267
jc2793
jchuah
jcornejo
jcr3726
jdc5646
jdj2652
jdm6327
jeffhens
jezvonek
jg54376
jkpeek
jl55879
jl62688
jm22652
jml4375
jnct
johnchen
johnli
jok8574
jonroelt
jpmakis
jricard
js84346
jsipps
jsull3
jt36629
juchao
junira
jwf953
jx2654
jyh
kamayani
katuite
keithcha
kendallw
k_fisher
khicks
k_ho
kochluck
kpereida
kregimba
krishb
krm3497
ksm2264
ktdoan
kyushick
lacour
lam4685
lf8488
lgao
lherrera
liaokp
lisiwang
ljgamo10
loumakos
malsawal
mambriz
mars2020
matt_g
mattscar
mayfield
mb48734
mchang
mct976
mdl2665
mdphill
medeker
mhiu
millerd
mingtran
mna579
mp43952
mpackard
ms72274
munal
myale
n0608375
n8524124
nathanvn
naveen34
nboeker
nbutler
neena
newman
nhy67
nihek
niimits
nlemcke
nmendoza
noesis23
nopoulos
nqv63
nrr527
nstarr
oreodog
peytones
pr8596
qz988
ramzi
rc43866
rd27472
rhs695
ringo
rmurthy
ro6848
romero03
rp29736
rpn6247
rrs2558
rs48746
rsatija
rtevans
samrodri
sbrkr
sd26677
sean_17
semeraro
sg39689
shawnwu
shelwick
shparki
sie94
sleal16
smm6224
sn9783
snakebite
spellski
srm3254
ss78279
starski
steven96
sth783
storm
stutter
stuurman
sundar
superlu
testuser
tg831851
tm33223
tme566
tobi
towne05
tpd399
tq598
trdough
v_floyd
vikkohli
vipul
vishnus
vkashyap
vmena96
vms784
wanegar
wchoy
webstar
wenjiey
willirl
woojoo
wrliu
ww7585
xp337
xywangg
yc6899
ycchen
yujincho
zenxi
zf2455
zhuode93
z_mare15
zrm323
